Sensitive

ABSTRACT
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) and sensor networks
are both wireless technologies that provide limitless future
potentials. While the industry has witnessed rapid growth in
developing and applying RFID technology, and the network
research community has devoted tremendous efforts in sensor
networks, these two communities would benefit greatly by
learning from each other. In pursuing this effect, a project
utilizing and integrating both technologies is described. The
goal is to build an in-home elder healthcare system that
monitors patients’ medication in take. This would help
addressing the challenge of a growing aging population.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
C2.1 [Network Architecture and Design]: Network
communications, wireless communication.
General Terms: Experimentation
Keywords: Healthcare, RFID, sensor networks.
1. INTRODUCTION
RFID technology has recently become a viable replacement for the
Universal Product Code (UPC) technology in many industries. Its
fast growth and huge potential benefits have motivated a major
move independently taken by Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer,
and the US Department of Defense (DoD), that requires their
suppliers to install RFID tags by 2005 [7]. In response, several
major computer companies, including Intel, HP, IBM, and Sun,
have announced their efforts and future plans to support RFID.
RFID technology, however, has attracted relatively little attention in
the network research community.
Meanwhile, sensors and sensor networks have in recent years been
adopted as a major research focus by federal funding agencies. This
has resulted in fast growing amount of research proposals and
publications.
In an effort to bridge the gap between industry and academia
focuses, we have been working on a prototype that utilizes both
technologies and investigates its feasibility, technical challenges,
and resulting capabilities of their integration.
An RFID system consists of two primary components - a tag and a
reader. An RFID tag, like a UPC, is usually attached to a tracking
object; a reader is then used to track tagged objects. While sensor
network is used to sense and monitor physical, chemical, and
biological environments through sensing of sound, temperature,
light, and etc., RFID tags allow any objects to be track-able or
“sensible” as long as a RFID tag can be attached. Even though
RFID technology has limitations, such as low tolerance to fluid or
metal environments, tags can extend a sensor network by providing
sensing/sensible property to otherwise un-sensible objects, thus
provide the last-hop connection of a sensor network.
RFID have been used in a number of biomedical and healthcare
applications, such as artificial inter-ocular pressure measurement
[9], dental implants and molds [11], and hospital workflow
including intra-hospital patient and equipment tracking [8].
From a recent study, the population of age 65 and older in the
United State will grow from 10.6 million in 1975 to 18.2 in 2025, an
increase of 72%, while the overall population increase is about 60%.
The trend is global; the worldwide population over age 65 will be
more than double from 357 million in 1990 to 761 million in 2025
[10]. Longevity has caused expensive age-related disabilities,
diseases, and therefore healthcare. To help in addressing this aging
population medication needs, we target our prototype on an in-home
elder healthcare system. This is a continuation of our work on
applying 

